The language elements for the navigational model are contained in the EPackage navigation and represent the web application’s navigation structure in the form of a directed multigraph. Web applications consist of pages or respectively views between which the user interactively can navigate with the browser e.g. by clicking links and buttons. In WASL Generic the term Node is defined as a part of a web application covering delimited specific functionality, addressed by a unique URL and navigable by the user with the browser´s controls such as back and forth buttons as well as bookmarks. Normally a Node corresponds to one single web page; however other implementations with multiple pages are possible as long as only one URL is presented to the user for these pages. Also platform-specific technologies like AJAX allow the content of a web page to be replaced after initially rendering it within the browser, leading to a multi-page approach based on a single page and URL.  
 
The navigation path between two Nodes is expressed by a Link, which corresponds to a directed edge of the multigraph and is implemented platform-specifically e.g. by a hypertext anchor or a HTML form’s action attribute. Each Node is contained in a NodeGroup, which itself can be nested in a super NodeGroup thus forming a hierarchy of NodeGroups. Usually the structure of the hierarchy is structured along the functional areas of the modeled web application. 
 
The menu structure of the web application is modeled without using Links with the purpose to reduce the number of links in the navigational model and thus to reduce the complexity. Modeling the menu structure in the navigational model by links with a number of n nodes would lead to a number of n² links as for each node a link to all nodes would have to be added. This does not comply with the requirement of clarity a model should satisfy. Also typically the menu of a web application is visualized and implemented separately from the rest of the page contents, so that a separated representation in the model simplifies the implementation of transformation definitions. Correspondingly to NodeGroups the menu can be structured hierarchically by MenuFolders.  
